#summary Installing a Newton ROM on an iOS device
#labels Featured

This is a source-code only release! You will have to compile and sign the app yourself. I have no approval for the iTunes store, so I can not distribute Einstein for iOS. Any help to get Einstein up to the standards of the app store are greatly appreciated.

= Introduction =

Einstein Emulator requires an MP2x00 US ROM image. 
The ROM file must be named 717006.rom and copied to 
your device using the iTunes File Sharing feature.

= Installing the ROM =

See [[Dumping the ROM]] to learn how to extract a ROM image from your owned Newton device.

Rename the ROM to _717006.rom_ and upload it to your iOS device using _iTunes_.

  * launch iTunes
  * connect your iPhone or iPad device
  * click on your device in the _Devices_ list
  * select the _Apps_ tab
  * under _File Sharing_, click on the _iEinstein_ icon
  * drag the ROM file into the _iEinstein Documents_ list
  * synchronize your device and relaunch iEinstein

iEinstein also accepts the Lantern DDK image files. They must be named "717006.aif" and "717006.rex".

= The First Launch =

When you launch iEinstein with ROM installed for the first time, it will need to set up the entire Newton system. It will take up to a minute until the Newton logo shows and another minute until you are finally asked to input some personal information.

Don't bother setting the date: NewtonOS has a bug and can not support dates after January 2010. There is a patch available which may or may not work with the emulator.

Eventually, the Notes application will show with an icon bar at the bottom of the screen. Go ahead, fool around, Write text, open the drawer, test the other apps. Have fun!

= Installing Packages =

You can download hundreds of packages from http://www.unna.org/

  * connect your iPhone to your computer and run iTunes
  * launch iEinstein on your device and let it boot up all the way
  * open File Sharing in iTunes and drag the packages into the file list
    * the iPhone will briefly show "Sync in Progress"
    * when back in iEinstein, Newton OS will install the package

The package in the file sharing list is no longer needed, you can delete it now or keep it around. To reinstall a package, drop it into the file list again.

Use the Newton OS  Drawer to uninstall packages from the Newton by tapping and holding, then choosing _delete_ from the file menu.